---
layout: page
title: Managing Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) in Web Data Connectors
base: docs
---

The JavaScript code in a web data connector typically makes requests to
a server that's on a different domain than the one that's hosting the
web data connector's HTML page. That is, the code makes requests that
represent cross-origin resource sharing (CORS). As a security measure,
most browsers restrict CORS requests made from JavaScript code.

This restriction can result in errors when the web data connector runs.
For example, if you run your connector in Google Chrome and the code in
the connector makes requests to a site that doesn't allow CORS requests,
the following error is displayed in the Chrome console:

```
XMLHttpRequest cannot load URL. No 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' header is present on the requested resource.
```

If your connector experiences CORS-related errors when trying to access
another site, you can try the approaches listed in this topic:

-   [Request CORS support from API Server](#request-access)

-   [Make requests with JSONP](#jsonp)

-   [Make requests through a proxy server](#proxy-server)

**Note**: For information about how to use the Web Data Connector
simulator to help debug CORS errors, see [Web Data Connector
Simulator](wdc_simulator.html).

Request CORS support from API Server {#request-access}
--------------------

To allow CORS requests, the server that hosts the data can set the
`Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header in the response. The header can be
set to specific domains (for example, `http://example.com`), or to `*`
to indicate that all domains are allowed access to the server's data. To
get CORS support for requests from your connector, you can contact the
owners of the site that hosts the data you are querying and ask them to
add the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header with your domain in it, or
to add your domain if the site already sends the header.

For more information, see [HTTP access
control](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Access_control_CORS)
on the Mozilla Developer Network site.

Make requests with JSONP {#jsonp}
---------

If the site that contains the data doesn't support CORS, it's often
possible to get data from the site by using *JSON with padding*, or
JSONP. JSONP provides an alternative to making requests directly in
JavaScript, since those are blocked. Instead, you use JavaScript to
dynamically create or update a `<script>` element and set its `src`
attribute to a URL that points to the site that has the data. The
URL also contains the name of a callback function that's in the
connector page. If the site supports JSONP, the response includes the
data in JSON format, "padded" with a call to the callback function.

If you use jQuery in your web data connector, you can make JSONP calls
using the <span class="api-command-ref">ajax</span> function. For more
information, see [jQuery.ajax()](http://api.jquery.com/jQuery.ajax/) on
the jQuery site.

If you aren't using jQuery, you can implement JSONP in your JavaScript
code. For example, a connector might contain the following JavaScript
code, which dynamically creates a `<script>` element and sets its `src`
attribute to the URL of a server that has a fictional temperature
service. The URL includes various parameters; one of the parameters is
the name of a callback function. When the new `<script>` element is
created, the browser invokes the URL that the `src` attribute is set to.

    var scriptTag = document.createElement('script');
    scriptTag.src = "http://myserver/temperatures?city=Seattle&year=2014&callback=getTemperatures";
    document.getElementsByTagName('head')[0].appendChild(scriptTag);

The connector must also include the following function, which is invoked
by the "padded" JSON that the temperature site returns. The JSON data is
passed to the function as the <span
class="api-placeholder">jsonpData</span> parameter, and the code in the
function can extract values as it would from any JSON block.

    var getTemperatures = function(jsonpData) {
        alert(jsonpData.someProperty);
        // More code here to extract the JSON data
    }

For more information, see [JSONP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSONP)
on Wikipedia.

Make requests through a proxy server {#proxy-server}
------------------------------------

Another option is to make requests from the web data connector's
JavaScript code to a proxy server. Code that's running on the proxy
server can make requests directly to the site where the data is—because
the proxy server is not running code in a browser, the code is not
limited by CORS restrictions. The JavaScript code in the browser can
then make requests to the proxy server instead of making requests
directly to the data site.

If the proxy server is in the same domain as the web data connector,
JavaScript in the connector page does not run into CORS restrictions. If
the proxy server is in another domain, the proxy server can be
configured to set the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header to allow
requests from the connector's domain.

Some options for using a proxy are:

-   Use a public proxy that is specifically designed for this purpose,
    such as [http://cors.io/.](http://cors.io/)

-   Download an existing proxy and run it locally on your computer. Many
    proxies are available as open-source projects or free
    software—search the web for "CORS proxy".

-   Create your own proxy - You can start with the [Node Proxy with OAuth Tutorial]({{ site.baseurl }}docs/wdc_oauth_tutorial.html)
    to get some starter code for this.  This tutorial will walk through using a node
    proxy for performing authentication.  It could be extended to proxy data requests as well.

**Note**: Creating and configuring a proxy server for this scenario
usually requires some custom programming. If you need assistance, see
the system administrator for your organization.
